Now I want to quickly cover libraries as well.
Libraries is super useful.
If you've got multiple locations that have files that you're interested,
they could be music files or they could be document files,
you can either use one of the built-in libraries or create one of your own.
Now if you're wondering how to show the libraries node if it's not showing,
what you'll want to do is go to View, Navigation pane,
and ensure that Show libraries is there.
On the same pane, on View, under Options,
remember when we were in Change folder and search options,
here this is where you can customize quick access a little bit,
as well as clear your File Explorer history of your recently selected items.
But anyway, you have these default library items,
and if I right-click the built-in Documents and go to Properties,
we can see that basically these libraries are virtual file
locations that allow you to plug in multiple folders.
These could be local folders on your system or network
folders in your environment and you can aggregate them
together into one virtual location.
Isn't that great?
Not only that,
you can choose a template for the library that says optimize this library for.
The fold,
the columns rather that you get are going to differ
depending upon the folder template so documents,
for instance, will have it looks like date modified,
type, and size.
Music has contributing artists, album, title.
See these are the different metadata columns that are available.
Let me switch this view to details and we can see pictures has tags,
size, and rating.
Again,
you can right-click to always get to those different options to
get to add or subtract columns I should say.
And if you go to More, in some cases, my gosh,
there's a whole bunch of different columns that you can
choose from based on that template.
Now you can actually create your own library by right-clicking
the Libraries node and coming down to New,
Library.
Give it a name, Project Files,
and I can create pointers by right-clicking going to Properties,
clicking Add to different locations, I'm going to go to this location here,
my microsoft-operating-system-fundamentals project folder,
and I'm going to include that.
Whoop, we hit an error that it can't be included because it's not indexed.
Okay.
And then there is a helpful link on how you can index folders.
Well, we get into that later in the course.
So let me choose a local folder instead.
When I'm in a dialog, a browse dialog like this,
you notice that we get,
this is a clickable link where you can actually see the
full path that took you to this location.
So it actually goes on my D drive to Dropbox,
to Pluralsight, to Tim Warner,
to Microsoft-operating-system-fundamentals and I can
even go inside one of these folders.
You can walk back by clicking back through what's called
the breadcrumb trail or check this out,
you can click once to highlight it and override the path completely.
I'll look at C: to look at my C drive and let's just say I want inetpub,
I'm going to add that to this location, and click OK.
And now I see any contents in there,
including it looks like a retro picture of a Commodore 64 computer,
that's kind of cool.
Alright, so we're going to use File Explorer a lot throughout this course.
That's all I want to do right now. Let's click inside the address bar and go to c:\users.